# solidity-boilerplate-creator

This tool provides a straightforward way to generate Solidity boilerplates for contracts, scripts, and tests.

> **Note:**
> I'm a newcomer to Solidity development and have chosen Foundry for my toolchain, inspired by Patrick Collins' [Blockchain Developer, Solidity, Foundry Full Course 2023](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4Rj_WH6yLgWe7TxankiqkrkVKXIwOP42).  
> This tool is tailored towards that setup and the folder structure recommended in the course.  
> The boilerplate templates can be modified to your needs, but other than that if you're not using Foundry, this tool might not fit your workflow.

## Install

Since this is a CLI tool, I'd suggest that you install the package globally:

`npm i -g solidity-boilerplate-creator`

## Usage

From the root folder containing the `src`, `script`, and `test` directories, run:

`sol-create [options] <fileName>`

| Option        | Description                                        |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| no option     | Create a contract boilerplate in the "src" folder  |
| -s, --script  | Create a script boilerplate in the "script" folder |
| -t, --test    | Create a test boilerplate in the "test" folder     |
| -V, --version | Show package version                               |
| -h, --help    | Display help for command                           |

## Modifying Templates

If you wish to modify the default boilerplate templates, you can do so by editing the template files located in the `templates` directory. There are separate templates for contracts, scripts, and tests:

- `header_template.sol`: Contains the common header used across all boilerplate types.
- `contract_template.sol`: Specific content for contract boilerplates.
- `script_template.sol`: Specific content for script boilerplates.
- `test_template.sol`: Specific content for test boilerplates.

By modifying these files, you can customize the content of the boilerplates generated by the tool.

### Using Placeholders

Placeholders allow for dynamic content insertion into the templates. They are defined in the `config.json` file and can be used in any template file. For example:

```json
{
  "placeholders": {
    "LICENSE": "MIT",
    "COMPILER_VERSION": "0.8.18",
    "dummy_testing": "Replaced text"
  }
}
```

Then, in the template files, you can refer to these placeholders by wrapping the keys from the `config.json` file in double curly braces.

Here's a boilerplate template example:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: {{LICENSE}}

pragma solidity ^{{COMPILER_VERSION}};

//{{dummy_testing}}
```

And here's the final output:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

pragma solidity ^0.8.18;

//Replaced text
```

You can define and use as many custom placeholders as you need in the `config.json` file.

## Changelog

### v0.1.1

- Clarified the error messages.

### v0.1.0

- Initial release.
- Basic functionality is in place for creating contracts, scripts, and tests boilerplates.
